but whose yen I was actually married for
20 years and was faithful for 17 yeah
and then had a few like one-night stands
and started to realize it took me a
while to realize that actually probably
shouldn't be doing monogamy particularly
given certain aspects of my marriage
which I keep private but there were
there additional reasons to this and and
so eventually yeah I did confess to my
wife like look I think I've had some
affairs and I just don't was a wick
Delahunty what no what no I'm just
curious because I just I just thought
[ __ ] I would never you know what I mean
not him oh no no I I have no idea what
you're talking about there but the
knowin s I just said like I understand
if you want to get a divorce
cuz I just I can't do monogamy in this
relationship and she said well let's try
an open marriage for a while and see if
that works and so we did we did that for
two years and it just wasn't for her
that wasn't the thing for her but it was
so basically that's when we decided to
get a divorce and we had an amicable
divorce we only needed a divorce
facilitator we didn't even need lawyers
because we all agreed on everything and
so we were fine about that but and then
you know once once we're divorced this
is the beginning of 2015 then I could
publicly declare openly that you know
I'm non-monogamous I'm ethically not
monogamous polyamorous I'm and I'm not
going back and so then then I could be a
much more open and honest and not have
to ever be in that situation again tario
was quite open about advertising for
sexual partners on his blog when he
announced that he was going off to a
speaking engagement he'd also request
people to write back to him for an
evening of intimacy I winced a little
bit when I saw it but it was okay it was
entirely consensual so he had no
complaint and were really not interested
in policing all content on freethought
blogs but then we saw another problem he
was showing up in the comment sections
of other people's blogs and prattling on
about his sexual activities
it was a bit obnoxious but he'd stop
when requested so there was nothing
actionable about it and then he was
dropped from the secular Student
Alliance a speaker's bureau force
breaking a rule and that rule was
speakers must refrain from initiating
any and all sexual behavior with
students with respect to speaker's
bureau events he was hitting on students
a behavior that was witnessed into which
he freely admitted he insisted that he
never violated the students consent
which he thought was sufficient but he
was defined the SSAS rules and then the
final straw he was banned from a major
conference for his repeated
boundary-pushing behavior this was a
thoroughly believable accusation because
we'd already seen signs of it it's a
well-known fact of me now that I'm an
outspoken polyamorous man and have been
for three years now though do you when
you do the debates or talks you ever
look at the crowd and do what van halen
didn't in their heyday and talk to
somebody and say I like to check ro7
talk to you know I would you know I know
I don't that's not interesting I don't
find that if I'm going to pursue someone
it's got to be with more with the
interaction like I got to know something
about them rent and feel a chemistry
with them I can't just pick someone
visually and say yeah that person that
doesn't really work great yeah no I know
that's where we differ well granted I
have a lot more experience with an
ominous lifestyle so and I know that
ever seen good sex and bad sex with lots
of different people mostly good sex so I
I know
Loreena that van Halen style of pursuing
sex is not actually it's not as much
rewarding as you might think it is you
have got to read some of his sworn
Testament you know like we were just
having this casual conversation and
suddenly decides that what that
conversation needs at that
point was for the rest of the world to
know that he had so much more sexual
stamina since he had his vasectomy yeah
polite civilized conversation who
wouldn't think of saying something like
that or propositioning somebody else's
wife while their husband was passed out
in the next room
meanwhile in Korea's sworn deposition a
polyamorous a love letter kaha you've
gotta feel cringe in this okay so this
time I'm just saying [ __ ] it and baring
my heart you and being a little overly
Frank and forthcoming and just flat-out
hating on you you are unequivocally
awesome and you know it which is
unequivocally sexy although I am a
little sexually intimidated by you which
only makes me more nervous I didn't mean
as a life partner I think you have your
hands full there anyway and my wife's
rules on our open relationship I'm not
allowed to have any more of those right
now but as a sexual partner even if just
once
I admire you immensely your bravado your
power your honesty your intelligence
your character your skill as a writer
and for me admiring a woman is in the
enormous turn-on competence is erotic
and sharing sexual experiences with an
incredible woman like you is so what I
want out of life after reading his sworn
deposition I wouldn't trust him alone
with a vacuum cleaner oh and just a fill
you and I now completely incestuous this
whole thing was Richard Currier was
dating the married head of kam quest but
it turns out was married to the head of
the secular Student Alliance and despite
being married to each other they
insisted that there was no connection
between camp quest and the secular
Student Alliance and that's a great star
of the atheist social justice warrior
conference circuit who is given some
$10,000 to write a book on Islam which
still hasn't been produced for
after the due date and this is of course
from dick sir
polyamorous love letter you just radiate
agency and that's like a brilliant warm
light you just want to embrace and
experience passionately I think it won
admiring you from afar sir as a writer
as an activist a colleague and a
valuable asset to our movement and go on
spending excellent time together with
you as a friend when we happen to be
around each other I won't be badly
dejected by now but if there's any
chance you want me I'm hoping to know of
course she calls it immediately and
blows him out the water hmm
how can I say this you must have
mistaken me for someone who is impressed
by multiple accounts of multiple
conquests and things uh are you down to
[ __ ] email is a love letter and after
pages of exchanged emails yes she just
lays it down on the line
you've been heavily hinting at this for
months now if you want to feel awful
feel awful for the months and me wanting
to tell you know but not being asked in
a direct enough way for me to just say
no and get it over with
she'll already have published how you
cheated on your wife multiple times in
some cases with a girl 16 years younger
than you who now fighting there was no
less than the conference organizer who
we now know you were writing a favorable
reference for in exchange for certain er
favors well have you ever had sex with
somebody and halfway through it you just
sign this socks and just get up and
leave
Oh [ __ ] uh no I've been polite and
stuck through it very rarely I mean very
rarely does that ever happen where I I
realize you know what we don't have
chemistry this isn't that great but no
if you if you do it you're gonna be
polite to the person you're not gonna
just like up and leave having the
freedom to be honest about my
relationships and my desires and things
like that not have to conceal them not
have to pretend they don't exist not
have to lie to anyone like this is this
is the way to live now that you became
famous you kicked your weight to the
curb you know and then this is what you
know what and what it said and what what
I you know in hindsight like if I knew
then what I know now of course I was
naive then but if I knew more about the
acceptability of just admitting that you
want to be nomina Gamez I would have
done that first right rather than rather
than cheated but I just didn't
understand that about myself and I
wasn't fully in a place of understanding
that that was an option at the time so I
it would have been better and is is what
I recommend to people who are in the
same place as me is if you want to do
that if you are unhappy because of your
forced monogamy the situation you're in
you should be honest or if you think
you're gonna cheat for example you
should just be honest and say look I
just can't do monogamy anymore and what
does that mean for us does that mean we
break up does that mean we have an open
relationship what and just explore that
honestly with your partner I think
that's think that's the best way to go
but it's it's never easy because you
know you could think like that's gonna
nuke your marriage and that's gonna
transform your life and so it's it's
difficult there's no simple easy
solution in those circumstances you're
gonna be there's gonna be some amount of
unhappiness no matter which decision you
make and it's just a question of which
unhappiness lasts longer or is worse
than all of the options above us Yin
okay so the appropriately glib way to
start this this recording look I was
just saying to my girlfriend off-camera
there's no point in me putting up a
quotation from the Pope
or what will be even more extreme the
leader of Isis or you know uh some
Muslim fundamentalist group and me just
sitting here and and blanket condemning
or you know obviously that kind of
critique I just don't that where the gap
between me and the person I'm
criticizing is is so broad or so deep or
so wide that nothing doesn't really
matter what in particular I say what's
challenging for me and maybe challenging
for some people audience is for me to
talk about interact with people where
the degrees of difference are harder to
measure out
and of course that's what I did with in
veganism on this channel for years and
years and years right if I got back
involved with Buddhists of intellectual
crosscurrents that would be the same to
where I'd be talking about other
Buddhist intellectuals and criticizing
them or politics of Taiwan or something
um so I may just say I do this as a
challenge and it is a little bit
challenging for me okay so I'm divorced
back when I was married you know my
ex-wife and I used to this is kind of a
recurring thing we we talked about it
was like nobody wants to separate work
and pleasure we so we knew this one
couple and the guy was a professor and
what do you know who did he cheat on his
wife with he didn't want to walk three
blocks tavin affair he cheated on his
wife with his secretary and at that
particular university the Secretary's
like this is my experience but other
people call the secretaries were never
like professional secretaries so again
you know some people actually go to
school and study you had to be a
secretary it really seemed like everyone
who was in the position of secretary was
just kind of a friend of a friend of
somebody you know it was more like
hiring a babysitter er the way at that
university what we saw was live
assembling a little bit vague so you
know and of course his secretary was a
younger woman and whereas he did have
kids with his wife and so on and so on
and we knew this other couple and we
knew them during their breakup and the
guy cheated on his on his wife and
who-who did he cheat with did he want to
have to take a bus trip or buy an
airplane ticket no he was also a
professor I don't know if you had the
title of full professor or because you
know there's lecturer and but he was on
the professor side of things and it was
it was a student it was one of his one
of his students and she was I mean I she
wasn't a it wasn't her age that was
shockingly low however there is this you
know ethical code you signed up for it's
actually in the contract and so on you
know she was she was old enough to to
consent and evidently she did consent
but that is decidedly not the point
apart from you know cheating on your
wife now what this example gets us into
is a broader question
let's say you're part of a movement
let's say you're part of a political
movement not a professor in university
but you're a leader of public opinion or
a discussant or you're a Socratic figure
you're a gadfly who engages people in
conversations and discussions which is
you know what a large part of what
Richard carrier does he's part of this
secular atheist you know political
movement who does he want to have
relationships with hook up with and so
on and so forth
it's he's not walking real far out of
his way it's the people who are coming
to his talks people come to his lectures
the people who are part of that part of
that scene and it's a disaster and what
can I tell you I really I mean honestly
I mean I'm sitting here watching this
and even some of it if you described it
in broad brushstrokes in the abstract it
might not sound that bad no it's it's
really poisonous and destructive and
corrosive and you could see that and
there's a brief moment as I've edited
this where it gives you a diagram of the
different people inside the
organization's at different levels and
he's connected to them you know with
this personal life or a sex life and so
on no I mean it's it's again whether
it's a workplace or a political movement
I think it's it's really hard for people
to face up to how corrosive that is and
then what's the solution and what are
you just gonna say like oh well you know
I mean don't you know separate business
and pleasure separate you work that's
not what anyone wants to do because Ivy
actually carrier just said it it towards
the end there you know in a human and
sympathetic way he said no he doesn't
want to have relationships with random
people just because they're good-looking
he wants to connect with people he has
something meaningful in common with
those are my words not his he did not
explain it that well and who does he
have those meaningful connections with
who does he feel that chemistry with as
he put it it's exactly people inside
these sorts of difficult and delicate
political and social situations yeah so
I make this video because it's not easy
for me to harshly condemn this other
microphone was just saying you said
you'd get along really well with this
guy you got to give me friends you need
no he used to be a Taoist he actually
lost faith in Taoism and then became a
critic of of Christianity I used to be a
Buddhist now a mile historical nihilist
he has it's true though he has an
approach to history in politics you know
when I have been influenced by his work
more than five years ago I think we're
about five years ago now you know is
when I was really interested in his
writing and his lectures on YouTube and
so on and I'm a little bit shocked now I
just googled him a couple days ago to
see what I've been missing last five
years in terms of what what happened in
his life but yeah it's it's a cautionary
tale and I close with this note it's
easy it's too easy for people to say
monogamy isn't for everyone it's
actually a lot more challenging to say
open relationships are not for everyone
I mean what is the everyone knows
monogamy fails
whether it's 60% of the time or what I
mean a lot of monogamous relationships
and in divorce mmm you know what does it
even mean for non-monogamy to fail
I'm Richard carrier he thinks his life
is great he thinks is he seems totally
satisfied and quite proud and I'm
sitting here watching this thinking this
is a disaster I'm sitting here watching
this thinking look bro you're not cut
out for this you're not cut out for this
lifestyle that you prepared and you know
that you're basically an activist for at
this point and he doesn't see it that
way and of course a lot of things in
life are like that I mean there is no
driver's license for being a parent we
know we know a lot of couples may be
best we do people may choose to be a
parent and it's like choose again you
are not cut out for being a parent
nobody's gonna tell them that yeah well
good for you know what
there's no driver's license there's no
blood test there's no eyesight test
there's no you know being a parent is
not even like joining the army and the
barrier to join the army is not that
high if you can do 200 push-ups you can
get in anyway you know uh people choose
themselves to be a parent
people choose themselves to be a
political activist to get involved a
charity non-profit sector people choose
themselves to get involved in
non-monogamy and to play these games and
to set up these situations and who is
likely to make that choice
maybe disproportionately it's the people
who are at least able to handle the
consequences of that choice and who are
the most lacking in the necessary tact
detachments maybe it's it's good and
disproportionately be people who are not
equipped to live that life we're gonna
choose to live that life hey guys those
are my thoughts I'm Richard
[Music]